reStructuredText 格式網誌
#############################

:date: 2017-11-18 11:20
:modified: 2017-11-18 18:40
:tags: reStructuredText, TeX
:category: Course
:slug: kmol-2017-fall-restrcturedtext-format-blog
:status: published
:authors: yen

Pelican 靜態網誌的文章編寫, 可以採 Markdown_ 格式, 存為 .md 檔案, 也可以採 reStructuredText_ 格式, 存為 .rst 

.. PELICAN_END_SUMMARY

Markdown_ 格式的資料, 主要應用於網頁, 而 reStructuredText_ 格式的資料, 則設計用來編寫科技文章.

Sphinx 
---------------

Sphinx_ 是 Python 專用的說明文件產生器, 可以將 reStructuredText_ 格式的內容轉為一般 HTML、Windows HTML Help、LaTeX、ePub、Texinfo、manual pages 與 plain text 格式內容.

Sphinx_ 的功能:

- Output formats: HTML (including Windows HTML Help), LaTeX_ (for printable PDF versions), ePub, Texinfo, manual pages, plain text

- Extensive cross-references: semantic markup and automatic links for functions, classes, citations, glossary terms and similar pieces of information

- Hierarchical structure: easy definition of a document tree, with automatic links to siblings, parents and children

- Automatic indices: general index as well as a language-specific module indices

- Code handling: automatic highlighting using the Pygments highlighter

- Extensions: automatic testing of code snippets, inclusion of docstrings from Python modules (API docs), and more

- Contributed extensions: more than 50 extensions contributed by users in a second repository; most of them installable from PyPI

.. _LaTeX: https://www.latex-project.org
.. _Markdown: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Markdown
.. _Pandoc: http://pandoc.org
.. _PandocUserGuide: http://pandoc.org/MANUAL.html
.. _reStructuredText: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ReStructuredText
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org

.. code-block:: python

   print("Pelican is a static site generator.")

連結資料的引用, 可以在設定內容之前, 也可以放在設定內容之後, 例如: reStructuredText_ 連結的引用設在定義連結之後, 而上一段同一關鍵字的連結引用, 則放在連結設定定義之前 換言之, 整個文章會用到的連結資料, 可以統一整理在 .rst 文章任何位置後, 再用於編輯文章時使用.

Pandoc 手冊
--------------------

PandocUserGuide_ 是 Pandoc_ 的使用者手冊

以下為 bullet list 用法:

- This is the first bullet list item.  The blank line above the
  first list item is required; blank lines between list items
  (such as below this paragraph) are optional.

- This is the first paragraph in the second item in the list.

  This is the second paragraph in the second item in the list.
  The blank line above this paragraph is required.  The left edge
  of this paragraph lines up with the paragraph above, both
  indented relative to the bullet.

  - This is a sublist.  The bullet lines up with the left edge of
    the text blocks above.  A sublist is a new list so requires a
    blank line above and below.

- This is the third item of the main list.

This paragraph is not part of the list.

文章 Status
----------------------

Pelican 靜態網誌中所準備的文章, 目前放在 content 目錄中, 可以使用 .md 或者 .rst 的格式, 假如文章尚未完成, 使用者可以在文章標題欄位中, 加入一個 status 欄位, 若為 draft, 表示文章為草稿, 轉檔時不會轉為 html 格式, 若 status 為內定的 published, 則表示文章已經完成, 可以透過 Leo Editor 的轉檔按鈕轉入 Blog 內容.

Pelican Plugins
----------------------------

目前所使用的 Pelican 網誌, 設定時納入 summary 的延伸功能, 使用者可以在文章中加入內容為 PELICAN_END_SUMMARY 的註解, 在 Markdown 中可以使用 html 註解格式, 而在 rst 中, 則可以在前面加入兩個逗號, 表示該分隔註解與內文的標註為註解, Pelican 網誌系統轉檔時, 只會啟用分隔功能, 不會納入該行資料.

:abbr:`Summary Plugin (https://github.com/getpelican/pelican-plugins/tree/master/summary)`




